Movie Analysis

Group members:
Marcus Garnham, Henrique Treve, Ruchi Sharma, Kouame Kouassi, Shola 

Outline:
We will be analysing what makes films successful in the New Millennium Era/Period of films. Which are films produced in after the 1990’s. We will be analysing what makes films successful either ratings wise or profitability wise. This will make the data very useful for those just starting or want to be apart of the movie industry or even those who are in the movie industry. We will specifically be looking at USA movies.

Questions:
(1) Do movies become profitable the longer the runtime is?
- We could do an overall graph for all years on a scatter graph. Plotting runtime against profit.
- We could then have a bar chart broken into years and runtime bins at the bottom with profitability on the y axis.
(2) Are different genres more profitable than other genres?
- We could have a pie chart that shows which genre takes the biggest slice of the pie. Maybe a graph to with it of number of films in each genre. 
- A different option would be a bar chart. 
(3) Does the runtime of the movie affect the public rating it gets?
- Scatter plot of movie length against public rating.
(4) Does the genre of a movie determine or affects its public rating?
- Break movies down per genre and do a box plot.
(5) Does the age rating and length of the movie affect the overall rating a movie gets?
(6) Does the age rating and the length of the movie affect profitability.
(7) Does the time of year the movie gets released affect the profitability the movie?
- Show a scatter plot of profit plotted against time of year.

Task Breakdown:
Data Cleaning: Kouassi Kouame 
Visualization/plots: split amongst the group
Code commenting: based on who wrote the code
Final presentation PowerPoint: Marcus, Proofread by group






Links:
IMDB Movies Dataset | Kaggle
Netflix Movies and TV Shows | Kaggle
The Movies Dataset | Kaggle
Top 1000 Highest Grossing Movies | Kaggle
TMDB 5000 Movie Dataset | Kaggle


Keywords for project;
Movie analysis

1. Profits and runtime
2. Genres and profits
3. Runtime and public rating
4. Genres and  public rating
5. Age rating , runtime and public rating
6. Age rating , runtime and profits
7. Release date and profits
